## Problem

You want to create two objects with the same name but want to avoid naming collisions.

## Solution

Create namespaces and place your objects in different ones.

If you don’t specify anything, objects will get created in the `default` namespace. Try creating a second namespace called `my-app`, as shown here, and list the existing namespaces. You will see the `default` namespace, two other namespaces that were created on startup (`kube-system` and `kube-public`), and the _my-app_ namespace you just created:

$ **kubectl create namespace my-app**
namespace "my-app" created

$ **kubectl get ns**
NAME          STATUS    AGE
default       Active    30s
my-app        Active    1s
kube-public   Active    29s
kube-system   Active    30s

Note

Alternatively, you can write a manifest to create your namespace. If you save the following manifest as _app.yaml_, you can then create the namespace with the `kubectl create -f app.yaml` command:

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: my-app
```{{execute}}

## Discussion

Attempting to start two objects with the same name in the same namespace (e.g., default) leads to a collision, and an error is returned by the Kubernetes API server. However, if you start the second object in a different namespace, the API server will create it:

$ **kubectl run foobar --image=ghost:0.9**
deployment "foobar" created

$ **kubectl run foobar --image=nginx:1.13**
Error from server (AlreadyExists): deployments.extensions "foobar" already exists

$ **kubectl run foobar --image=nginx:1.13 --namespace foobar**
deployment "foobar" created

This is because many API objects in Kubernetes are namespaced. The namespace they belong to is defined as part of the object’s metadata.

Note

The `kube-system` namespace is reserved for administrators, whereas the [`kube-public` namespace](http://bit.ly/kube-public) is meant to store public objects available to any users of the cluster.