## Problem

You want to discover the various API endpoints available on the Kubernetes API server.

## Solution

If you have access to the API server via an unauthenticated private port, you can directly issue HTTP requests to the API server and explore the various endpoints. For example, with Minikube, you can `ssh` inside the virtual machine (`minikube ssh`) and reach the API server on port 8080, as shown here:

$ **curl localhost:8080/api/v1**
...
{
      "name": "pods",
      "namespaced": true,
      "kind": "Pod",
      "verbs": \[
        "create",
        "delete",
        "deletecollection",
        "get",
        "list",
        "patch",
        "proxy",
        "update",
        "watch"
      \],
      "shortNames": \[
        "po"
      \]
    },
...

In this listing you see an example of an object of kind `Pod` as well as the allowed operations on this subject, such as `get` and `delete`.

Tip

Alternatively, if you don’t have direct access to the machine the Kubernetes API server is running on, you can use `kubectl` to proxy the API locally. This will allow you to reach the API server locally, but using an authenticated session:

$ **kubectl proxy --port=8001 --api-prefix=/**

And then in another window, do this:

$ **curl localhost:8001/foobar**

The use of the `/foobar` API path allows you to list all the API endpoints. Note that both `--port` and `--api-prefix` are optional.

## Discussion

When discovering the API endpoints, you will see different ones, like:

*   `/api/v1`
    
*   `/apis/apps`
    
*   `/apis/authentication.k8s.io`
    
*   `/apis/authorization.k8s.io`
    
*   `/apis/autoscaling`
    
*   `/apis/batch`
    

Each of these endpoints corresponds to an API group. Within a group, API objects are versioned (e.g., `v1beta1`, `v1beta2`) to indicate the maturity of the objects. Pods, services, config maps, and secrets, for example, are all part of the `/api/v1` API group, whereas deployments are part of the `/apis/extensions/v1beta1` API group.

The group an object is part of is what is referred to as the `apiVersion` in the object specification, available via the [API reference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/api-reference/v1.7/).

## See Also

*   [Kubernetes API Overview](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/api-overview/)
    
*   Kubernetes [API Conventions](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/api-conventions.md)