## Problem

You want to query objects efficiently.

## Solution

Use the `kubectl get --selector` command. For example, given the following pods:

$ **kubectl get pods --show-labels**
NAME                     READY  ...   LABELS
cockroachdb-0            1/1    ...   app=cockroachdb,
cockroachdb-1            1/1    ...   app=cockroachdb,
cockroachdb-2            1/1    ...   app=cockroachdb,
jump-1247516000-sz87w    1/1    ...   pod-template-hash=1247516000,run=jump
nginx-4217019353-462mb   1/1    ...   pod-template-hash=4217019353,run=nginx
nginx-4217019353-z3g8d   1/1    ...   pod-template-hash=4217019353,run=nginx
prom-2436944326-pr60g    1/1    ...   app=prom,pod-template-hash=2436944326

You can select the pods that belong to the CockroachDB app (`app=cockroachdb`):

$ **kubectl get pods --selector app=cockroachdb**
NAME            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cockroachdb-0   1/1       Running   0          17h
cockroachdb-1   1/1       Running   0          17h
cockroachdb-2   1/1       Running   0          17h

## Discussion

Labels are part of an object’s metadata. Any object in Kubernetes can be labeled. Labels are also used by Kubernetes itself for pod selection by deployments (see [\[kubectl\_run\]](#kubectl_run)) and services (see [\[ch\_services\]](#ch_services)).

Labels can be added manually with the kubectl label command (see [Labeling an Object](#easy_label)), or you can define labels in an object manifest, like so:

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: foobar
  labels:
    tier: frontend
...
```{{execute}}

Once labels are present, you can list them with `kubectl get`, noting the following:

*   `-l` is the short form of `--selector` and will query objects with a specified `key=value` pair.
    
*   `--show-labels` will show all the labels of each object returned.
    
*   `-L` will add a column to the results returned with the value of the specified label.
    
*   Many object kinds support set-based querying, meaning you can state a query in a form like "must be labelled with X and/or Y." For example, `kubectl get pods -l 'env in (production, development)'` would give you pods that are in either the production or development environment.
    

With two pods running, one with label `run=barfoo` and the other with label `run=foobar`, you would get outputs similar to the following:

$ **kubectl get pods --show-labels**
NAME                      READY   ...    LABELS
barfoo-76081199-h3gwx     1/1     ...    pod-template-hash=76081199,run=barfoo
foobar-1123019601-6x9w1   1/1     ...    pod-template-hash=1123019601,run=foobar

$ **kubectl get pods -Lrun**
NAME                      READY   ...    RUN
barfoo-76081199-h3gwx     1/1     ...    barfoo
foobar-1123019601-6x9w1   1/1     ...    foobar

$ **kubectl get pods -l run=foobar**
NAME                      READY   ...
foobar-1123019601-6x9w1   1/1     ...

## See Also

*   Kubernetes [Labels documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/)