## Problem

You want to provide a stable and reliable way to discover and access your application within the cluster.

## Solution

Create a Kubernetes service for the pods that make up your application.

Assuming you created an `nginx` deployment with `kubectl run nginx --image nginx`, you can automatically create a `Service` object using the `kubectl expose` command, like so:

$ **kubectl expose deploy/nginx --port 80**
service "nginx" exposed

$ **kubectl describe svc/nginx**
Name:                   nginx
Namespace:              default
Labels:                 run=nginx
Annotations:            <none>
Selector:               run=nginx
Type:                   ClusterIP
IP:                     10.0.0.143
Port:                   <unset> 80/TCP
Endpoints:              172.17.0.5:80,172.17.0.7:80
Session Affinity:       None
Events:                 <none>

You will then see the object appear when you list all services:

$ **kubectl get svc | grep nginx**
NAME         TYPE        CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
nginx        ClusterIP   10.109.24.56   <none>        80/TCP    2s

## Discussion

To access this service via your browser, run a proxy in a separate terminal, like so:

$ **kubectl proxy**
Starting to serve on 127.0.0.1:8001

Then open your browser with:

$ **open http://localhost:8001/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/default/services/nginx/**

If you wanted to write a `Service` object by hand for the same `nginx` deployment, you would write the following YAML file:

```
apiVersion:  v1
kind:        Service
metadata:
  name:      nginx
spec:
  selector:
    run:     nginx
  ports:
  - port:    80
```{{execute}}

The one thing to pay attention to in this YAML file is the _selector_, which is used to select all the pods that make up this microservice abstraction. Kubernetes uses the `Service` object to dynamically configure the iptables on all the nodes to be able to send the network traffic to the containers that make up the microservice. The selection is done as a label query (see [\[labels\]](#labels)) and results in a list of endpoints.

Tip

If your service does not seem to be working properly, check the labels used in the selector and verify that a set of endpoints is being populated with `kubectl get endpoints`. If not, this most likely means that your selector is not finding any matching pods.

Note

Pod supervisors, such as deployments or replication controllers, operate orthogonally to services. Both supervisors and services find the pods they’re looking after by using labels, but they have different jobs to do: supervisors monitor the health of and restart pods, and services make them accessible in a reliable way.

## See Also

*   Kubernetes [Services documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service)
    
*   Kubernetes tutorial ["Using a Service to Expose Your App"](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/expose-intro/)