## Problem

You want to define the security context for an app on the pod level. For example, you want to run the app as a nonprivileged process or restrict the types of volumes the app can access.

## Solution

To enforce policies on the pod level in Kubernetes, use the `securityContext` field in a pod specification.

Let’s assume you want an app running as a nonroot user. For this, you’d use the security context on the container level as shown in the following manifest, _securedpod.yaml_:

```
kind:                Pod
apiVersion:          v1
metadata:
  name:              secpod
spec:
  containers:
  - name:            shell
    image:           centos:7
    command:
      - "bin/bash"
      - "-c"
      - "sleep 10000"
    securityContext:
      runAsUser:     5000
```{{execute}}

Now create the pod and check the user under which the container runs:

$ **kubectl create -f securedpod.yaml**
pod "secpod" created

$ **kubectl exec secpod ps aux**
USER       PID %CPU %MEM    VSZ   RSS TTY      STAT START   TIME COMMAND
5000         1  0.0  0.0   4328   672 ?        Ss   12:39   0:00 sleep 10000
5000         8  0.0  0.1  47460  3108 ?        Rs   12:40   0:00 ps aux

As expected, it’s running as the user with ID `5000`. Note that you can also use the `securityContext` field on the pod level rather than on specific containers.

A more powerful method to enforce policies on the pod level is to use pod security policies (PSP). These are cluster-wide resources that allows you to define a range of policies, including some similar to what you’ve seen here but also restrictions around storage and networking. For a walk-through on how to use PSPs, see ["Secure a Kubernetes Cluster with Pod Security Policies"](https://docs.bitnami.com/kubernetes/how-to/secure-kubernetes-cluster-psp/) in the Bitnami docs for Kubernetes.

## See Also

*   [Pod Security Policies documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/)
    
*   [Configure a Security Context for a Pod or Container](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/)