## Problem

You want to provide an application with a unique identity in order to control access to resources on a fine-grained level.

## Solution

Create a service account and use it in a pod specification.

To begin, create a new service account called `myappsa` and have a closer look at it:

$ **kubectl create serviceaccount myappsa**
serviceaccount "myappsa" created

$ **kubectl describe sa myappsa**
Name:           myappsa
Namespace:      default
Labels:         <none>
Annotations:    <none>

Image pull secrets:     <none>

Mountable secrets:      myappsa-token-rr6jc

Tokens:                 myappsa-token-rr6jc

$ **kubectl describe secret myappsa-token-rr6jc**
Name:           myappsa-token-rr6jc
Namespace:      default
Labels:         <none>
Annotations:    kubernetes.io/service-account.name=myappsa
                kubernetes.io/service-account.uid=0baa3df5-c474-11e7-8f08...

Type:   kubernetes.io/service-account-token

Data
====
ca.crt:         1066 bytes
namespace:      7 bytes
token:          eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9 ...

You can use this service account in a pod, like so:

```
kind:                 Pod
apiVersion:           v1
metadata:
  name:               myapp
spec:
  serviceAccountName: myappsa
  containers:
  - name:             main
    image:            centos:7
    command:
      - "bin/bash"
      - "-c"
      - "sleep 10000"
```{{execute}}

You can then verify whether the service account `myappsa` has been properly used by your pod by running:

$ **kubectl exec myapp -c main \\
          cat  /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token \\
          eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9 ...**

Indeed, the `myappsa` service account token has been mounted in the expected place in the pod and can be used going forward.

While a service account on its own is not super useful, it forms the basis for fine-grained access control; see [Listing and Viewing Access Control Information](#rbac_intro) for more on this.

## Discussion

Being able to identify an entity is the prerequisite for authentication and authorization. From the API server’s point of view, there are two sorts of entities: human users and applications. While user identity (management) is outside of the scope of Kubernetes, there is a first-class resource representing the identity of an app: the service account.

Technically, the authentication of an app is captured by the token available in a file at the location `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token`, which is mounted automatically through a secret. The service accounts are namespaced resources and are represented as follows:

```
system:serviceaccount:$NAMESPACE:$SERVICEACCOUNT
```{{execute}}

Listing the service accounts in a certain namespace gives you something like the following:

$ **kubectl get sa**
NAME         SECRETS   AGE
default      1         90d
myappsa      1         19m
prometheus   1         89d

Notice the service account called `default` here. This is created automatically; if you don’t set the service account for a pod explicitly, as was done in the Solution, it will be assigned the default service account in its namespace.

## See Also

*   [Managing Service Accounts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/service-accounts-admin/)
    
*   [Configure Service Accounts for Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/)
    
*   [Pull an Image from a Private Registry](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/)