## Problem

You want to learn what actions you’re allowed to do—​for example, updating a deployment or listing secrets.

## Solution

The following solution assumes you’re using Role-Based Access Control as the [authorization method](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/).

To check if a certain action on a resource is allowed for a specific user, use `kubectl auth can-i`. For example, you can execute this command to check if the service account `system:serviceaccount:sec:myappsa` is allowed to list pods in the namespace `sec`:

$ **kubectl auth can-i list pods --as=system:serviceaccount:sec:myappsa -n=sec**
yes

Note

If you want to try out this recipe in Minikube, you’ll need to add `--extra-config=apiserver.Authorization.Mode=RBAC` when executing the binary.

To list the roles available in a namespace, do this:

$ **kubectl get roles -n=kube-system**
NAME                                             AGE
extension-apiserver-authentication-reader        1d
system::leader-locking-kube-controller-manager   1d
system::leader-locking-kube-scheduler            1d
system:controller:bootstrap-signer               1d
system:controller:cloud-provider                 1d
system:controller:token-cleaner                  1d

$ **kubectl get clusterroles -n=kube-system**
NAME                                             AGE
admin                                            1d
cluster-admin                                    1d
edit                                             1d
system:auth-delegator                            1d
system:basic-user                                1d
system:controller:attachdetach-controller        1d
system:controller:certificate-controller         1d
system:controller:cronjob-controller             1d
system:controller:daemon-set-controller          1d
system:controller:deployment-controller          1d
system:controller:disruption-controller          1d
system:controller:endpoint-controller            1d
system:controller:generic-garbage-collector      1d
system:controller:horizontal-pod-autoscaler      1d
system:controller:job-controller                 1d
system:controller:namespace-controller           1d
system:controller:node-controller                1d
system:controller:persistent-volume-binder       1d
system:controller:pod-garbage-collector          1d
system:controller:replicaset-controller          1d
system:controller:replication-controller         1d
system:controller:resourcequota-controller       1d
system:controller:route-controller               1d
system:controller:service-account-controller     1d
system:controller:service-controller             1d
system:controller:statefulset-controller         1d
system:controller:ttl-controller                 1d
system:discovery                                 1d
system:heapster                                  1d
system:kube-aggregator                           1d
system:kube-controller-manager                   1d
system:kube-dns                                  1d
system:kube-scheduler                            1d
system:node                                      1d
system:node-bootstrapper                         1d
system:node-problem-detector                     1d
system:node-proxier                              1d
system:persistent-volume-provisioner             1d
view                                             1d

The output shows the predefined roles, which you can use directly for users and service accounts.

To further explore a certain role and understand what actions are allowed, use:

$ **kubectl describe clusterroles/view -n=kube-system**
Name:           view
Labels:         kubernetes.io/bootstrapping=rbac-defaults
Annotations:    rbac.authorization.kubernetes.io/autoupdate=true
PolicyRule:
  Resources                                     Non-Resource URLs     ...  ...
  ---------                                     -----------------     ---  ---
  bindings                                      \[\]                    ...  ...
  configmaps                                    \[\]                    ...  ...
  cronjobs.batch                                \[\]                    ...  ...
  daemonsets.extensions                         \[\]                    ...  ...
  deployments.apps                              \[\]                    ...  ...
  deployments.extensions                        \[\]                    ...  ...
  deployments.apps/scale                        \[\]                    ...  ...
  deployments.extensions/scale                  \[\]                    ...  ...
  endpoints                                     \[\]                    ...  ...
  events                                        \[\]                    ...  ...
  horizontalpodautoscalers.autoscaling          \[\]                    ...  ...
  ingresses.extensions                          \[\]                    ...  ...
  jobs.batch                                    \[\]                    ...  ...
  limitranges                                   \[\]                    ...  ...
  namespaces                                    \[\]                    ...  ...
  namespaces/status                             \[\]                    ...  ...
  persistentvolumeclaims                        \[\]                    ...  ...
  pods                                          \[\]                    ...  ...
  pods/log                                      \[\]                    ...  ...
  pods/status                                   \[\]                    ...  ...
  replicasets.extensions                        \[\]                    ...  ...
  replicasets.extensions/scale                  \[\]                    ...  ...
  replicationcontrollers                        \[\]                    ...  ...
  replicationcontrollers/scale                  \[\]                    ...  ...
  replicationcontrollers.extensions/scale       \[\]                    ...  ...
  replicationcontrollers/status                 \[\]                    ...  ...
  resourcequotas                                \[\]                    ...  ...
  resourcequotas/status                         \[\]                    ...  ...
  scheduledjobs.batch                           \[\]                    ...  ...
  serviceaccounts                               \[\]                    ...  ...
  services                                      \[\]                    ...  ...
  statefulsets.apps                             \[\]                    ...  ...

In addition to the default roles defined in the `kube-system` namespace, you can define your own; see [Controlling Access to Resources](#access_control).

Tip

When RBAC is enabled, in many environments (including Minikube and GKE) you might see a Forbidden (403) status code and an error message as shown below when you try to access the Kubernetes dashboard:

> User "system:serviceaccount:kube-system:default" cannot list pods in the namespace "sec". (get pods)

To access the dashboard, you’ll need to give the `kube-system:default` service account the necessary rights:

$ **kubectl create clusterrolebinding admin4kubesystem \\
  --clusterrole=cluster-admin \\
  --serviceaccount=kube-system:default**

Note that this command gives the service account a lot of rights and might not be advisable in a production environment.

## Discussion

As you can see in [The RBAC concept](#rbac-concept), there are a couple of moving parts when dealing with RBAC authorization:

*   An entity—​that is, a group, user, or service account
    
*   A resource, such as a pod, service, or secret
    
*   A role, which defines rules for actions on a resource
    
*   A role binding, which applies a role to an entity
    

![RBAC Concept](images/k8sc_1002.png)

Figure 1. The RBAC concept

The actions on a resource that a role uses in its rules are the so-called verbs:

*   get, list, watch
    
*   create
    
*   update/patch
    
*   delete
    

Concerning the roles, we differentiate between two types:

*   Cluster-wide: cluster roles and their respective cluster role bindings
    
*   Namespace-wide: roles and role bindings
    

In [Controlling Access to Resources](#access_control), we will further discuss how you can create your own rules and apply them to users and resources.

## See Also

*   Kubernetes [Authorization Overview](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/)
    
*   [Using RBAC Authorization](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/rbac/)