## Problem

Your program has become an unreadable mess of hardcoded slice indices and you want to clean it up.

## Solution

Suppose you have some code that is pulling specific data fields out of a record string with fixed fields (e.g., from a flat file or similar format):

```
######    0123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890'
record = '....................100          .......513.25     ..........'
cost = int(record[20:32]) * float(record[40:48])
```

Instead of doing that, why not name the slices like this?

```
SHARES = slice(20,32)
PRICE  = slice(40,48)

cost = int(record[SHARES]) * float(record[PRICE])
```

In the latter version, you avoid having a lot of mysterious hardcoded indices, and what you’re doing becomes much clearer.

## Discussion

As a general rule, writing code with a lot of hardcoded index values leads to a readability and maintenance mess. For example, if you come back to the code a year later, you’ll look at it and wonder what you were thinking when you wrote it. The solution shown is simply a way of more clearly stating what your code is actually doing.

In general, the built-in `slice()` creates a slice object that can be used anywhere a slice is allowed. For example:

`items = [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]`{{execute}}

`a = slice(2, 4)`{{execute}}

`items[2:4]  # [2, 3]`{{execute}}

`items[a]  # [2, 3]`{{execute}}

`items[a] = [10,11]`{{execute}}

`items  # [0, 1, 10, 11, 4, 5, 6]`{{execute}}

`del items[a]`{{execute}}

`items  # [0, 1, 4, 5, 6]`{{execute}}

If you have a `slice` instance `s`, you can get more information about it by looking at its `s.start`, `s.stop`, and `s.step` attributes, respectively. For example:

`a = slice(5, 50, 2)`{{execute}}

`a.start  # 5`{{execute}}

`a.stop  # 50`{{execute}}

`a.step  # 2`{{execute}}

In addition, you can map a slice onto a sequence of a specific size by using its `indices(size)` method. This returns a tuple `(start, stop, step)` where all values have been suitably limited to fit within bounds (as to avoid `IndexError` exceptions when indexing). For example:

`s = 'HelloWorld'`{{execute}}

`a.indices(len(s))  # (5, 10, 2)`{{execute}}

```
# hit 'return' in terminal to complete this block

for i in range(*a.indices(len(s))):
    print(s[i])

```{{execute}}