## Problem

You want to eliminate the duplicate values in a sequence, but preserve the order of the remaining items.

## Solution

If the values in the sequence are hashable, the problem can be easily solved using a set and a generator. For example:

```
def dedupe(items):
    seen = set()
    for item in items:
        if item not in seen:
            yield item
            seen.add(item)

```{{execute}}

Here is an example of how to use your function:

```
a = [1, 5, 2, 1, 9, 1, 5, 10]
list(dedupe(a))  # [1, 5, 2, 9, 10]
```{{execute}}

This only works if the items in the sequence are hashable. If you are trying to eliminate duplicates in a sequence of unhashable types (such as dicts), you can make a slight change to this recipe, as follows:

```
def dedupe(items, key=None):
    seen = set()
    for item in items:
        val = item if key is None else key(item)
        if val not in seen:
            yield item
            seen.add(val)

```{{execute}}

Here, the purpose of the `key` argument is to specify a function that converts sequence items into a hashable type for the purposes of duplicate detection. Here’s how it works:

```
b = [ {'x':1, 'y':2}, {'x':1, 'y':3}, {'x':1, 'y':2}, {'x':2, 'y':4}]
list(dedupe(b, key=lambda d: (d['x'],d['y'])))
# [{'x': 1, 'y': 2}, {'x': 1, 'y': 3}, {'x': 2, 'y': 4}]

list(dedupe(b, key=lambda d: d['x']))
# [{'x': 1, 'y': 2}, {'x': 2, 'y': 4}]
```{{execute}}

This latter solution also works nicely if you want to eliminate duplicates based on the value of a single field or attribute or a larger data structure.

## Discussion

If all you want to do is eliminate duplicates, it is often easy enough to make a set. For example:

`a  # [1, 5, 2, 1, 9, 1, 5, 10]`{{execute}}

`set(a)  # {1, 2, 10, 5, 9}`{{execute}}

However, this approach doesn’t preserve any kind of ordering. So, the resulting data will be scrambled afterward. The solution shown avoids this.

The use of a generator function in this recipe reflects the fact that you might want the function to be extremely general purpose—​not necessarily tied directly to list processing. For example, if you want to read a file, eliminating duplicate lines, you could simply do this:

```
with open(somefile,'r') as f:
    for line in dedupe(f):
        ...
```

The specification of a `key` function mimics similar functionality in built-in functions such as `sorted()`, `min()`, and `max()`. 