## Problem

You need to execute a reduction function (e.g., `sum()`, `min()`, `max()`), but first need to transform or filter the data.

## Solution

A very elegant way to combine a data reduction and a transformation is to use a generator-expression argument. For example, if you want to calculate the sum of squares, do the following:

`nums = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`{{execute}}

`s = sum(x * x for x in nums)`{{execute}}\

Here are a few other examples:

```
# Determine if any .py files exist in a directory
import os
files = os.listdir('dirname')
if any(name.endswith('.py') for name in files):
    print('There be python!')
else:
    print('Sorry, no python.')

# Output a tuple as CSV
s = ('ACME', 50, 123.45)
print(','.join(str(x) for x in s))

# Data reduction across fields of a data structure
portfolio = [
   {'name':'GOOG', 'shares': 50},
   {'name':'YHOO', 'shares': 75},
   {'name':'AOL', 'shares': 20},
   {'name':'SCOX', 'shares': 65}
]
min_shares = min(s['shares'] for s in portfolio)
```{{execute}}

## Discussion

The solution shows a subtle syntactic aspect of generator expressions when supplied as the single argument to a function (i.e., you don’t need repeated parentheses). For example, these statements are the same:

```
s = sum((x * x for x in nums))    # Pass generator-expr as argument
s = sum(x * x for x in nums)      # More elegant syntax
```{{execute}}

Using a generator argument is often a more efficient and elegant approach than first creating a temporary list. For example, if you didn’t use a generator expression, you might consider this alternative implementation:

```
nums = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
s = sum([x * x for x in nums])
```{{execute}}

This works, but it introduces an extra step and creates an extra list. For such a small list, it might not matter, but if `nums` was huge, you would end up creating a large temporary data structure to only be used once and discarded. The generator solution transforms the data iteratively and is therefore much more memory-efficient.

Certain reduction functions such as `min()` and `max()` accept a `key` argument that might be useful in situations where you might be inclined to use a generator. For example, in the `portfolio` example, you might consider this alternative:

```
# Original: Returns 20
min_shares = min(s['shares'] for s in portfolio)

# Alternative: Returns {'name': 'AOL', 'shares': 20}
min_shares = min(portfolio, key=lambda s: s['shares'])
```{{execute}}