## Problem

You want to make a dictionary that maps keys to more than one value (a so-called "multidict").

## Solution

A dictionary is a mapping where each key is mapped to a single value. If you want to map keys to multiple values, you need to store the multiple values in another container such as a list or set. For example, you might make dictionaries like this:

```
d = {
   'a' : [1, 2, 3],
   'b' : [4, 5]
}

e = {
   'a' : {1, 2, 3},
   'b' : {4, 5}
}
```

The choice of whether or not to use lists or sets depends on intended use. Use a list if you want to preserve the insertion order of the items. Use a set if you want to eliminate duplicates (and don’t care about the order).

To easily construct such dictionaries, you can use `defaultdict` in the `collections` module. A feature of `defaultdict` is that it automatically initializes the first value so you can simply focus on adding items. For example:

```
from collections import defaultdict

d = defaultdict(list)
d['a'].append(1)
d['a'].append(2)
d['b'].append(4)
...

d = defaultdict(set)
d['a'].add(1)
d['a'].add(2)
d['b'].add(4)
...
```

One caution with `defaultdict` is that it will automatically create dictionary entries for keys accessed later on (even if they aren’t currently found in the dictionary). If you don’t want this behavior, you might use `setdefault()` on an ordinary dictionary instead. For example:

```
d = {}    # A regular dictionary
d.setdefault('a', []).append(1)
d.setdefault('a', []).append(2)
d.setdefault('b', []).append(4)
...
```

However, many programmers find `setdefault()` to be a little unnatural—​not to mention the fact that it always creates a new instance of the initial value on each invocation (the empty list `[]` in the example).

## Discussion

In principle, constructing a multivalued dictionary is simple. However, initialization of the first value can be messy if you try to do it yourself. For example, you might have code that looks like this:

```
d = {}
for key, value in pairs:
    if key not in d:
         d[key] = []
    d[key].append(value)

```

Using a `defaultdict` simply leads to much cleaner code:

```
d = defaultdict(list)
for key, value in pairs:
    d[key].append(value)

```

This recipe is strongly related to the problem of grouping records together in data processing problems. 