## Problem

You want to create a dictionary, and you also want to control the order of items when iterating or serializing.

## Solution

To control the order of items in a dictionary, you can use an `OrderedDict` from the `collections` module. It exactly preserves the original insertion order of data when iterating. For example:

```
from collections import OrderedDict

d = OrderedDict()
d['foo'] = 1
d['bar'] = 2
d['spam'] = 3
d['grok'] = 4

# Outputs "foo 1", "bar 2", "spam 3", "grok 4"
for key in d:
    print(key, d[key])

```{{execute}}

An `OrderedDict` can be particularly useful when you want to build a mapping that you may want to later serialize or encode into a different format. For example, if you want to precisely control the order of fields appearing in a JSON encoding, first building the data in an `OrderedDict` will do the trick:

```
import json

json.dumps(d)

```{{execute}}

## Discussion

An `OrderedDict` internally maintains a doubly linked list that orders the keys according to insertion order. When a new item is first inserted, it is placed at the end of this list. Subsequent reassignment of an existing key doesn’t change the order.

Be aware that the size of an `OrderedDict` is more than twice as large as a normal dictionary due to the extra linked list that’s created. Thus, if you are going to build a data structure involving a large number of `OrderedDict` instances (e.g., reading 100,000 lines of a CSV file into a list of `OrderedDict` instances), you would need to study the requirements of your application to determine if the benefits of using an `OrderedDict` outweighed the extra memory overhead.