## Problem

You need to read or write data in a file with gzip or bz2 compression.

## Solution

The `gzip` and `bz2` modules make it easy to work with such files. Both modules provide an alternative implementation of `open()` that can be used for this purpose. For example, to read compressed files as text, do this:

```
# gzip compression
import gzip
with gzip.open('somefile.gz', 'rt') as f:
    text = f.read()

# bz2 compression
import bz2
with bz2.open('somefile.bz2', 'rt') as f:
    text = f.read()
```{{execute}}

Similarly, to write compressed data, do this:

```
# gzip compression
import gzip
with gzip.open('somefile.gz', 'wt') as f:
    f.write(text)

# bz2 compression
import bz2
with bz2.open('somefile.bz2', 'wt') as f:
    f.write(text)
```{{execute}}

As shown, all I/O will use text and perform Unicode encoding/decoding. If you want to work with binary data instead, use a file mode of `rb` or `wb`.

## Discussion

For the most part, reading or writing compressed data is straightforward. However, be aware that choosing the correct file mode is critically important. If you don’t specify a mode, the default mode is binary, which will break programs that expect to receive text. Both `gzip.open()` and `bz2.open()` accept the same parameters as the built-in `open()` function, including `encoding`, `errors`, `newline`, and so forth.

When writing compressed data, the compression level can be optionally specified using the `compresslevel` keyword argument. For example:

```
with gzip.open('somefile.gz', 'wt', compresslevel=5) as f:
     f.write(text)
```{{execute}}

The default level is 9, which provides the highest level of compression. Lower levels offer better performance, but not as much compression.

Finally, a little-known feature of `gzip.open()` and `bz2.open()` is that they can be layered on top of an existing file opened in binary mode. For example, this works:

```
import gzip

f = open('somefile.gz', 'rb')
with gzip.open(f, 'rt') as g:
     text = g.read()
```{{execute}}

This allows the `gzip` and `bz2` modules to work with various file-like objects such as sockets, pipes, and in-memory files.