## Problem

You want to read and write data over a serial port, typically to interact with some kind of hardware device (e.g., a robot or sensor).

## Solution

Although you can probably do this directly using Python’s built-in I/O primitives, your best bet for serial communication is to use the [pySerial package](http://pyserial.sourceforge.net). Getting started with the package is very easy. You simply open up a serial port using code like this:

```
import serial
ser = serial.Serial('/dev/tty.usbmodem641',  # Device name varies
                     baudrate=9600,
                     bytesize=8,
                     parity='N',
                     stopbits=1)
```{{execute}}

The device name will vary according to the kind of device and operating system. For instance, on Windows, you can use a device of 0, 1, and so on, to open up the communication ports such as "COM0" and "COM1." Once open, you can read and write data using `read()`, `readline()`, and `write()` calls. For example:

```
ser.write(b'G1 X50 Y50\r\n')
resp = ser.readline()
```{{execute}}

For the most part, simple serial communication should be pretty simple from this point forward.

## Discussion

Although simple on the surface, serial communication can sometimes get rather messy. One reason you should use a package such as pySerial is that it provides support for advanced features (e.g., timeouts, control flow, buffer flushing, handshaking, etc.). For instance, if you want to enable RTS-CTS handshaking, you simply provide a `rtscts=True` argument to `Serial()`. The provided documentation is excellent, so there’s little benefit to paraphrasing it here.

Keep in mind that all I/O involving serial ports is binary. Thus, make sure you write your code to use bytes instead of text (or perform proper text encoding/decoding as needed). The `struct` module may also be useful should you need to create binary-coded commands or packets.