## Problem

You would like to define a generator function, but it involves extra state that you would like to expose to the user somehow.

## Solution

If you want a generator to expose extra state to the user, don’t forget that you can easily implement it as a class, putting the generator function code in the  `_iter_()` method. For example:

```
from collections import deque

class linehistory(object):
    def __init__(self, lines, histlen=3):
        self.lines = lines
        self.history = deque(maxlen=histlen)

    def __iter__(self):
        for lineno, line in enumerate(self.lines,1):
            self.history.append((lineno, line))
            yield line

    def clear(self):
        self.history.clear()
```{{execute}}

To use this class, you would treat it like a normal generator function. However, since it creates an instance, you can access internal attributes, such as the `history` attribute or the `clear()` method. For example:

```
with open('somefile.txt') as f:
     lines = linehistory(f)
     for line in lines:
         if 'python' in line:
             for lineno, hline in lines.history:
                 print('{}:{}'.format(lineno, hline), end='')
```{{execute}}

## Discussion

With generators, it is easy to fall into a trap of trying to do everything with functions alone. This can lead to rather complicated code if the generator function needs to interact with other parts of your program in unusual ways (exposing attributes, allowing control via method calls, etc.). If this is the case, just use a class definition, as shown. Defining your generator in the `_iter_()` method doesn’t change anything about how you write your algorithm. The fact that it’s part of a class makes it easy for you to provide attributes and methods for users to interact with.

One potential subtlety with the method shown is that it might require an extra step of calling `iter()` if you are going to drive iteration using a technique other than a `for` loop. For example:

```
>>> f = open('somefile.txt')
>>> lines = linehistory(f)
>>> next(lines)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
TypeError: 'linehistory' object is not an iterator

>>> # Call iter() first, then start iterating
>>> it = iter(lines)
>>> next(it)
'hello world\n'
>>> next(it)
'this is a test\n'
>>>
```{{execute}}