## Problem

You want to use Python to write scripts that use the Kubernetes API.

## Solution

Install the Python `kubernetes` module. This module is currently being developed in the Kubernetes [incubator](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/client-python). You can install the module from source or from the [Python Package Index (PyPi) site](https://pypi.python.org/pypi):

$ **pip install kubernetes**

With a Kubernetes cluster reachable using your default `kubectl` context, you are now ready to use this Python module to talk to the Kubernetes API. For example, the following Python script lists all the pods and prints their names:

```
from kubernetes import client, config

config.load_kube_config()

v1 = client.CoreV1Api()
res = v1.list_pod_for_all_namespaces(watch=False)
for pod in res.items:
    print(pod.metadata.name)
```{{execute}}

The `config.load_kube_config()` call in this script will load your Kubernetes credentials and endpoint from your `kubectl` config file. By default, it will load the cluster endpoint and credentials for your current context.

## Discussion

The Python client is built using the OpenAPI specification of the Kubernetes API. It is up to date and autogenerated. All APIs are available through this client.

Each API group corresponds to a specific class, so to call a method on an API object that is part of the `/api/v1` API group, you need to instantiate the `CoreV1Api` class. To use deployments, you will need to instantiate the `extensionsV1beta1Api` class. All methods and corresponding API group instances can be found in the autogenerated [_README_](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/client-python/tree/master/kubernetes).

## See Also

*   [Examples in the project’s repository](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/client-python/tree/master/examples)