## Problem

You have a custom workload and none of the existing resources, such as Deployment, a Job, or a `StatefulSet`, is a good fit. So, you want to extend the Kubernetes API with a new resource that represents your workload while continuing to use `kubectl` in the usual way.

## Solution

Use a [`CustomResourceDefinition` (CRD)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/api-extension/custom-resources/) as described \[here\].

Let’s say you want to define a custom resource of kind `Function`. This represents a short-running Job-like kind of resource, akin to what AWS Lambda offers, that is a Function-as-a-Service (FaaS, or sometimes misleadingly called "serverless").

Note

For a production-ready FaaS solution running on Kubernetes, see [\[kubeless\]](#kubeless).

First, define the CRD in a manifest file called _functions-crd.yaml_:

```
apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind:       CustomResourceDefinition
metadata:
  name:     function.example.com
spec:
  group:    example.com
  version:  v1
  names:
    kind:   Function
    plural: functions
    scope:  Namespaced
```{{execute}}

Then let the API server know about your new CRD (it can take several minutes to register):

$ **kubectl create -f functions-crd.yaml**
customresourcedefinition "functions.example.com" created

Now that you have the custom resource `Function` defined and the API server knows about it, you can instantiate it using a manifest called _myfaas.yaml_ with the following content:

```
apiVersion: example.com/v1
kind:       Function
metadata:
  name:     myfaas
spec:
  code:     "http://src.example.com/myfaas.js"
  ram:      100Mi
```{{execute}}

And create the `myfaas` resource of kind `Function` as per usual:

$ **kubectl create -f myfaas.yaml**
function "myfaas" created

$ **kubectl get crd functions.example.com -o yaml**
apiVersion: apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: CustomResourceDefinition
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: 2017-08-13T10:11:50Z
  name: functions.example.com
  resourceVersion: "458065"
  selfLink: /apis/apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1/customresourcedefinitions
            /functions.example.com
  uid: 278016fe-81a2-11e7-b58a-080027390640
spec:
  group: example.com
  names:
    kind: Function
    listKind: FunctionList
    plural: functions
    singular: function
  scope: Namespaced
  version: v1
status:
  acceptedNames:
    kind: Function
    listKind: FunctionList
    plural: functions
    singular: function
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: null
    message: no conflicts found
    reason: NoConflicts
    status: "True"
    type: NamesAccepted
  - lastTransitionTime: 2017-08-13T10:11:50Z
    message: the initial names have been accepted
    reason: InitialNamesAccepted
    status: "True"
    type: Established

$ **kubectl describe functions.example.com/myfaas**
Name:           myfaas
Namespace:      default
Labels:         <none>
Annotations:    <none>
API Version:    example.com/v1
Kind:           Function
Metadata:
  Cluster Name:
  Creation Timestamp:                   2017-08-13T10:12:07Z
  Deletion Grace Period Seconds:        <nil>
  Deletion Timestamp:                   <nil>
  Resource Version:                     458086
  Self Link:                            /apis/example.com/v1/namespaces/default
                                        /functions/myfaas
  UID:                                  316f3e99-81a2-11e7-b58a-080027390640
Spec:
  Code: http://src.example.com/myfaas.js
  Ram:  100Mi
Events: <none>

To discover CRDs, simply access the API server. For example, using `kubectl proxy`, you can access the API server locally and query the key space (`example.com/v1` in our case):

$ **curl 127.0.0.1:8001/apis/example.com/v1/ | jq .**
{
  "kind": "APIResourceList",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "groupVersion": "example.com/v1",
  "resources": \[
    {
      "name": "functions",
      "singularName": "function",
      "namespaced": true,
      "kind": "Function",
      "verbs": \[
        "delete",
        "deletecollection",
        "get",
        "list",
        "patch",
        "create",
        "update",
        "watch"
      \]
    }
  \]
}

Here you can see the resource along with the allowed verbs.

When you want to get rid of your custom resource instance `myfaas`, simply delete it:

$ **kubectl delete functions.example.com/myfaas**
function "myfaas" deleted

## Discussion

As you’ve seen, it is straightforward to create a CRD. From an end user’s point of view, CRDs present a consistent API and are more or less indistinguishable from native resources such as pods or jobs. All the usual commands, such as `kubectl get` and `kubectl delete`, work as expected.

Creating a CRD is, however, really less than half of the work necessary to fully extend the Kubernetes API. On their own, CRDs only let you store and retrieve custom data via the API server in etcd. You need to also write a [custom controller](https://engineering.bitnami.com/articles/a-deep-dive-into-kubernetes-controllers.html) that interprets the custom data expressing the user’s intent and establishes a control loop comparing the current state with the declared state, and tries to reconcile both.

Tip

Up until v1.7, what are now known as CRDs were called _third-party resources_ (TPRs). If you happen to have a TPR, strongly consider [migrating](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/migrate-third-party-resource/) it now.

The main limitations of CRDs (and hence the reasons you might want to use a user API server in certain cases) are:

*   Only a single version per CRD is supported, though it is possible to have multiple versions per API group (that means you can’t convert between different representations of your CRD).
    
*   CRDS don’t support assigning default values to fields in v1.7 or earlier.
    
*   Validation of the fields defined in a CRD specification is possible only from v1.8.
    
*   It’s not possible to define subresources, such as `status` resources.
    

## See Also

*   [Extend the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/extend-api-custom-resource-definitions/)
    
*   Stefan Schimanski and Michael Hausenblas’s blog post ["Kubernetes Deep Dive: API Server – Part 3a"](https://blog.openshift.com/kubernetes-deep-dive-api-server-part-3a/)
    
*   Aaron Levy, ["Writing a Custom Controller: Extending the Functionality of Your Cluster"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_BuqPMlXfpE), KubeCon 2017
    
*   Tu Nguyen’s article ["A Deep Dive into Kubernetes Controllers"](https://engineering.bitnami.com/articles/a-deep-dive-into-kubernetes-controllers.html)
    
*   Yaron Haviv’s article ["Extend Kubernetes 1.7 with Custom Resources"](https://thenewstack.io/extend-kubernetes-1-7-custom-resources/)