## Problem

You want to create a Kubernetes cluster on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

## Solution

Using the `gcloud` command-line interface, create a Kubernetes cluster with the `container clusters create` command, like so:

$ **gcloud container clusters create oreilly**

By default this will create a Kubernetes cluster with three worker nodes. The master node is being managed by the GKE service and cannot be accessed.

## Discussion

To use GKE, you will first need to do a few things:

*   Create an account on the Google Cloud Platform with billing enabled.
    
*   Create a project and enable the GKE service in it.
    
*   Install the `gcloud` CLI on your machine.
    

To speed up the setup of `gcloud`, you can make use of the [Google Cloud Shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell/docs/), a pure online browser-based solution.

Once your cluster is created, you can list it as shown here:

$ **gcloud container clusters list**
NAME     ZONE            MASTER\_VERSION  MASTER\_IP     ...  STATUS
oreilly  europe-west1-b  1.7.8-gke.0     35.187.80.94  ...  RUNNING

Note

The `gcloud` CLI allows you to resize your cluster, update it, and upgrade it:

...
COMMANDS
...
     resize
        Resizes an existing cluster for running containers.
     update
        Update cluster settings for an existing container cluster.
     upgrade
        Upgrade the Kubernetes version of an existing container
        cluster.

Once you are done using your cluster, do not forget to delete it to avoid being charged:

$ **gcloud container clusters delete oreilly**

## See Also

*   GKE [Quickstart](https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/docs/quickstart)
    
*   Google Cloud Shell [Quickstart](https://cloud.google.com/shell/docs/quickstart)