## Problem

You’ve installed the `helm` command (see [Installing Helm, the Kubernetes Package Manager](#helm_install)), and now you would like to search for charts and deploy them.

## Solution

By default, Helm comes with some chart repositories configured. These repositories are maintained by the community; you can read more about them on [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts). There are over 100 charts available.

For example, let’s assume you would like to deploy Redis. You can search for `redis` in the Helm repositories and then install it. Helm will take the chart and create an instance of it called a _release_.

First, verify that `tiller` is running and that you have the default repositories configured:

$ **kubectl get pods --all-namespaces | grep tiller**
kube-system   tiller-deploy-1491950541-4kqxx   1/1   Running   0   3m

$ **helm repo list**
NAME   	URL
stable 	http://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-charts

You can now search for a Redis package:

$ **helm search redis**
NAME                    	VERSION	DESCRIPTION
stable/redis            	0.5.1  	Open source, advanced key-value store. It ...
testing/redis-cluster   	0.0.5  	Highly available Redis cluster with multiple...
testing/redis-standalone 0.0.1   Standalone Redis Master
stable/sensu            	0.1.2  	Sensu monitoring framework backed by the ...
testing/example-todo    	0.0.6  	Example Todo application backed by Redis

And use `helm install` to create a release like so:

$ **helm install stable/redis**

Helm will create all the Kubernetes objects defined in the chart; for example, a secret (see [\[special\_volumes\]](#special_volumes)), a PVC (see [\[pvc\_minikube\]](#pvc_minikube)), a service (see [\[simple\_service\]](#simple_service)), and/or a deployment. Together, these objects make up a Helm release that you can manage as a single unit.

The end result is that you will have a `redis` pod running:

$ **helm ls**
NAME           REVISION	 UPDATED                   STATUS  	 CHART        ...
broken-badger  1         Fri May 12 11:50:43 2017  DEPLOYED  redis-0.5.1  ...

$ **kubectl get pods**
NAME                                   READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
broken-badger-redis-4040604371-tcn14   1/1       Running   0          3m

To learn more about Helm charts and how to create your own charts, see [Creating Your Own Chart to Package Your Application with Helm](#create_chart).