## Problem

You’ve started using containers with Docker and written some Docker compose files to define your multicontainer application. Now you would like to start using Kubernetes, and wonder if and how you can reuse your Docker compose files.

## Solution

Use `kompose`, a CLI tool that converts your Docker compose files into Kubernetes manifests.

To start, download `kompose` from the GitHub [release page](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/kompose/releases) and move it to your `$PATH`, for convenience.

For example, on macOS, do the following:

$ **wget https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/kompose/releases/download/ \\
       v1.6.0/kompose-darwin-amd64**

$ **sudo mv kompose-darwin-amd64 /usr/local/bin/kompose**

$ **sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/kompose**

$ **kompose version**
1.6.0 (ae4ef9e)

Given the following Docker compose file that starts a `redis` container:

```
version: '2'

services:
  redis:
    image: redis
    ports:
    - "6379:6379"
```{{execute}}

You can automatically convert this into Kubernetes manifests with the following command:

$ **kompose convert --stdout**

The manifests will be printed to `stdout` and you will see a Kubernetes service and a deployment as a result. To create these objects automatically, you can use the Docker compose-compliant command `up` like so:

$ **kompose up**

Warning

Some Docker compose directives are not converted to Kubernetes. In this case, `kompose` prints out a warning informing you that the conversion did not happen.

While in general it doesn’t cause problems, it is possible that the conversion may not result in a working manifest in Kubernetes. This is expected as this type of transformation cannot be perfect. However, it gets you close to a working Kubernetes manifest. Most notably, handling volumes and network isolation will typically require manual, custom work from your side.

## Discussion

The main `kompose` commands are `convert`, `up`, and `down`. You can view detailed help for each command in the CLI using the `--help` option.

By default, `kompose` converts your Docker services into a Kubernetes deployment and associated service. You can also specify the use of a `DaemonSet` (see [\[daemonset\]](#daemonset)), or you can use OpenShift-specific objects such as a [DeploymentConfiguration](https://docs.openshift.org/latest/architecture/core_concepts/deployments.html#deployments-and-deployment-configurations).