## Problem

You have written an application with multiple Kubernetes manifests and would like to package it as a Helm chart.

## Solution

Use the `helm create` and `helm package` commands.

With `helm create`, you can generate the skeleton of your chart. Issue the command in your terminal, specifying the name of your chart. For example, to create an oreilly chart:

$ **helm create oreilly**
Creating oreilly

$ **tree oreilly/**
oreilly/
├── Chart.yaml
├── charts
├── templates
│   ├── NOTES.txt
│   ├── \_helpers.tpl
│   ├── deployment.yaml
│   ├── ingress.yaml
│   └── service.yaml
└── values.yaml

2 directories, 7 files

If you have all your manifests already written, you can copy them into the _/templates_ directory and delete what the scaffolding created. If you want to templatize your manifests, then write the values that need to be substituted in the manifests in the _values.yaml_ file. Edit the metadata file _Chart.yaml_, and if you have any dependent charts put them in the _/charts_ directory.

You can test your chart locally by running:

$ **helm install ./oreilly**

Finally, you can package it with `helm package oreilly/`. This will generate a tarball of your chart, copy it to a local chart repository, and generate a new _index.yaml_ file for your local repository. Look into the _~/.helm_ directory and you should see something similar to the following:

$ **ls -l ~/.helm/repository/local/**
total 16
-rw-r--r--  1 sebgoa  staff   379 Dec 16 21:25 index.yaml
-rw-r--r--  1 sebgoa  staff  1321 Dec 16 21:25 oreilly-0.1.0.tgz

A `helm search oreilly` should now return your local chart:

$ **helm search oreilly**
NAME         	VERSION	DESCRIPTION
local/oreilly	0.1.0  	A Helm chart for Kubernetes

## See Also

*   ["How to Create Your First Helm Chart"](https://docs.bitnami.com/kubernetes/how-to/create-your-first-helm-chart/) in the Bitnami docs for Kubernetes
    
*   ["The Chart Best Practices Guide"](https://docs.helm.sh/chart_best_practices/) in the Helm docs