## Problem

You do not want to write all the Kubernetes manifests by hand. Instead, you would like to be able to search for a package in a repository and download and install it with a command-line interface.

## Solution

Use [Helm](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm). Helm is the Kubernetes package manager; it defines a Kubernetes package as a set of manifests and some metadata. The manifests are actually templates. The values in the templates are filled when the package is instantiated by Helm. A Helm package is called a chart.

Helm has a client-side CLI called `helm` and a server called `tiller`. You interact with charts using `helm`, and `tiller` runs within your Kubernetes cluster as a regular Kubernetes deployment.

You can build Helm from source or download it from the GitHub [release page](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/releases), extract the archive, and move the `helm` binary into your $PATH. For example, on macOS, for the v2.7.2 release of Helm, do this:

$ **wget https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-helm/ \\
  helm-v2.7.2-darwin-amd64.tar.gz**

$ **tar -xvf helm-v2.7.2-darwin-amd64.tar.gz**

$ **sudo mv darwin-amd64/64 /usr/local/bin**

$ **helm version**

Now that the `helm` command is in your `$PATH`, you can use it to start the server-side component, `tiller`, on your Kubernetes cluster. Here we use Minikube as an example:

$ **kubectl get nodes**
NAME       STATUS    AGE       VERSION
minikube   Ready     4m        v1.7.8

$ **helm init**
$HELM\_HOME has been configured at /Users/sebgoa/.helm.

Tiller (the helm server side component) has been installed into your Kubernetes
Cluster. Happy Helming!

$ **kubectl get pods --all-namespaces | grep tiller**
kube-system   tiller-deploy-1491950541-4kqxx   0/1  ContainerCreating  0  1s

You’re all set now and can install one of the [over 100 packages available](https://hub.kubeapps.com/).