## Problem

You want to deploy Python, Node.js, Ruby, or PowerShell functions to Kubernetes without having to build a Docker container. You also want to be able to call those functions via HTTP or by sending events to a message bus.

## Solution

Use the Kubernetes-native serverless solution kubeless.

`kubeless` uses a `CustomResourceDefinition` (see [\[writing\_crd\]](#writing_crd)) to define `Function` objects and a controller to deploy these functions inside pods within a Kubernetes cluster.

While the possibilities are quite advanced, in this recipe we will show a basic example of deploying a Python function that returns the JSON payload you send it.

First, create a `kubeless` namespace and launch the controller. To do so, you can get the manifest that is released with every version on the GitHub [release page](https://github.com/kubeless/kubeless/releases). From that same release page, also download the `kubeless` binary:

$ **kubectl create ns kubeless**

$ **curl -sL https://github.com/kubeless/kubeless/releases/download/v0.3.1/ \\
           kubeless-rbac-v0.3.1.yaml | kubectl create -f -**

$ **wget https://github.com/kubeless/kubeless/releases/download/v0.3.1/ \\
       kubeless\_darwin-amd64.zip**

$ **sudo cp bundles/kubeless\_darwin-amd64/kubeless /usr/local/bin**

Within the `kubeless` namespace, you will see three pods: the controller that watches the `Function` custom endpoints, and the Kafka and Zookeeper pods. The latter two pods are only needed for functions that are triggered by events. For HTTP-triggered functions, you only need the controller to be in the running state:

$ **kubectl get pods -n kubeless**
NAME                                  READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
kafka-0                               1/1       Running   0          6m
kubeless-controller-9bff848c4-gnl7d   1/1       Running   0          6m
zoo-0                                 1/1       Running   0          6m

To try `kubeless`, write the following Python function in a file called _post.py_:

```
def handler(context):
    print context.json
    return context.json
```{{execute}}

You can then deploy this function in Kubernetes using the `kubeless` CLI. The `function deploy` command takes several optional arguments. The `--runtime` option specifies what language the function is written in; the `--http-trigger` option specifies that the function will be triggered via HTTP(S) calls; and the `--handler` option specifies the name of the function, with the prefix being the basename of the file the function is stored in. Finally, the `--from-file` option specifies the file in which the function is written:

$ **kubeless function deploy post-python --trigger-http \\
                                       --runtime python2.7 \\
                                       --handler post.handler \\
                                       --from-file post.py**
INFO\[0000\] Deploying function...
INFO\[0000\] Function post-python submitted for deployment
INFO\[0000\] Check the deployment status executing 'kubeless function ls post-python'

$ **kubeless function ls**
NAME                 NAMESPACE	HANDLER      RUNTIME  	 TYPE	 TOPIC
post-python	default 	hellowithdata.handler 	python     2.7	  HTTP

$ **kubectl get pods**
NAME                           READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
post-python-5bcb9f7d86-d7nbt   1/1     Running   0          6s

The `kubeless` controller detected the new `Function` object and created a deployment for it. The function code is stored in a config map (see [\[configmaps\]](#configmaps)) and injected into the running pod at runtime. Then the function is callable via HTTP. The following shows these few objects:

$ **kubectl get functions**
NAME          AGE
post-python   2m

$ **kubectl get cm**
NAME          DATA      AGE
post-python   3         2m

$ **kubectl get deployments**
NAME          DESIRED   CURRENT   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
post-python   1         1         1            1           2m

To call the function you can use the `kubeless function call` command, like so:

$ **kubeless function call post-python --data '{"oreilly":"function"}'**
{"oreilly": "function"}

Note

`kubeless` can be used for much more than basic HTTP-triggered functions. Use the `--help` option to explore the CLI: `kubeless --help`.

## See Also

*   The [`kubeless` repository](https://github.com/kubeless/kubeless)
    
*   [`kubeless` examples](https://github.com/kubeless/kubeless/tree/master/examples)
    
*   [Kubeless on Azure Container Services](https://github.com/kubeless/kubeless/blob/master/docs/kubeless-on-azure-container-services.md)