## Problem

You want to use Minikube locally for testing and development of your Kubernetes application. You have installed and started `minikube` (see [Installing Minikube to Run a Local Kubernetes Instance](#minikube_install)) and want to know a few extra commands to simplify your development experience.

## Solution

The Minikube CLI offers a few commands that make your life easier. The CLI has built-in help that you can use to discover the subcommands on your own—​here’s a snippet:

$ **minikube**
...
Available Commands:
  addons           Modify minikube's kubernetes addons.
...
  start            Starts a local kubernetes cluster.
  status           Gets the status of a local kubernetes cluster.
  stop             Stops a running local kubernetes cluster.
  version          Print the version of minikube.

Aside from `start`, `stop`, and `delete`, you should become familiar with the `ip`, `ssh`, `dashboard`, and `docker-env` commands.

Tip

Minikube runs a Docker engine to be able to start containers. In order to access this Docker engine from your local machine using your local Docker client, you’ll need to set up the correct Docker environment with `minikube docker-env`.

## Discussion

The `minikube start` command starts the virtual machine (VM) that will run Kubernetes locally. By default it will allocate 2 GB of RAM, so when you are done, do not forget to stop it with `minikube stop`. Also, you can give the VM more memory and CPUs as well as pick a certain Kubernetes version to run—​for example:

$ **minikube start --cpus=4 --memory=4000 --kubernetes-version=v1.7.2**

For debugging the Docker daemon that is used inside Minikube, you might find `minikube ssh` handy; it will log you into the virtual machine. To get the IP address of the Minikube VM, use `minikube ip`. Finally, to launch the Kubernetes dashboard in your default browser, use `minikube dashboard`.

Tip

If for any reason your Minikube becomes unstable, or you want to start afresh, you can remove it with `minikube stop` and `minikube delete`. Then a `minikube start` will give you a fresh installation.