## Problem

You want to provide configuration data to an application without storing it in the container image or hardcoding it into the pod specification.

## Solution

Use a config map. These are first-class Kubernetes resources with which you can provide configuration data to a pod via environment variables or a file.

Let’s say you want to create a configuration with the key `siseversion` and the value `0.9`. It’s as simple as this:

$ **kubectl create configmap siseconfig --from-literal=siseversion=0.9**
configmap "siseconfig" created

Now you can use the config map in a deployment—​say, in a manifest file called _cmapp.yaml_ with the following content:

```
apiVersion:                  extensions/v1beta1
kind:                        Deployment
metadata:
  name:                      cmapp
spec:
  replicas:                  1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app:                 cmapp
    spec:
      containers:
      - name:                sise
        image:               mhausenblas/simpleservice:0.5.0
        ports:
        - containerPort:     9876
        env:
        - name:              SIMPLE_SERVICE_VERSION
          valueFrom:
            configMapKeyRef:
              name:          siseconfig
              key:           siseversion
```{{execute}}

We’ve just shown how to pass in the configuration as an environment variable. However, you can also mount it into the pod as a file, using a volume.

Suppose you have the following config file, _example.cfg_:

```
debug: true
home: ~/abc
```{{execute}}

You can create a config map that holds the config file, as follows:

$ **kubectl create configmap configfile --from-file=example.cfg**

Now you can use the config map just as you would any other volume. The following is the manifest file for a pod named `oreilly`; it uses the `busybox` image and just sleeps for 3,600 seconds. In the `volumes` section, there is a volume named `oreilly` which uses the config map `configfile` that we just created. This volume is then mounted at the path `/oreilly` inside the container. Hence, the file will be accessible within the pod:

```
apiVersion:        v1
kind:              Pod
metadata:
  name:            oreilly
spec:
  containers:
  - image:         busybox
    command:
      - sleep
      - "3600"
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath:   /oreilly
      name:        oreilly
    name:          busybox
  volumes:
  - name:          oreilly
    configMap:
      name:        configfile
```{{execute}}

After creating the pod, you can verify that the _example.cfg_ file is indeed inside it:

$ **kubectl exec -ti oreilly -- ls -l /oreilly**
total 0
lrwxrwxrwx   1 root   root   18 Dec 16 19:36 example.cfg -> ..data/example.cfg

$ **kubectl exec -ti oreilly -- cat /oreilly/example.cfg**
debug: true
home: ~/abc

For a complete example of how to create a config map from a file, see [\[prom\_minikube\]](#prom_minikube).

## See Also

*   [Configure a Pod to Use a ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/)