## Problem

You want to use Minikube to understand how you could deploy a stateful application in Kubernetes. Specifically, you would like to deploy a MySQL database.

## Solution

Use a `PersistentVolumeClaim` object (see [Using a Persistent Volume with Minikube](#pv_minikube)) in your pod definition and/or the template for your database.

First you need to make a request for a specific amount of storage. The following _data.yaml_ manifest makes a request for 1 GB of storage.

```
kind:          PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion:    v1
metadata:
  name:        data
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 1Gi
```{{execute}}

On Minikube, create this PVC and immediately see how a persistent volume is created to match this claim:

$ **kubectl create -f data.yaml**

$ **kubectl get pvc**
NAME  STATUS  VOLUME                                    CAPACITY ...  ...  ...
data  Bound   pvc-da58c85c-e29a-11e7-ac0b-080027fcc0e7  1Gi      ...  ...  ...

$ **kubectl get pv**
NAME                                      CAPACITY  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...
pvc-da58c85c-e29a-11e7-ac0b-080027fcc0e7  1Gi       ...  ...  ...  ...  ...

You are now ready to use this claim in your pod. In the `volumes` section, define a volume by name with a PVC type and a reference to the PVC you just created. In the `volumeMounts` field, you’ll mount this volume at a specific path inside your container. For MySQL, you mount it at `/var/lib/mysql`:

```
apiVersion:        v1
kind:              Pod
metadata:
  name:            db
spec:
  containers:
  - image:         mysql:5.5
    name:          db
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath:   /var/lib/mysql
      name:        data
    env:
      - name:      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD
        value:     root
  volumes:
  - name:          data
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName:   data
```{{execute}}

## Discussion

Minkube is configured out of the box with a default storage class that defines a default persistent volume provisioner. This means that when a persistent volume claim is created, Kubernetes will dynamically create a matching persistent volume to fill that claim.

This is what happened in the Solution. Once you created the `data` PVC, Kubernetes automatically created a PV to match that claim. If you look a bit deeper at the default storage class on Minikube, you will see the provisioner type:

$ **kubectl get storageclass**
NAME                 PROVISIONER
standard (default)   k8s.io/minikube-hostpath

$ **kubectl get storageclass standard -o yaml**
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
...
provisioner: k8s.io/minikube-hostpath
reclaimPolicy: Delete

This specific storage class is using a storage provisioner that creates persistent volumes of type `hostPath`. You can see this by looking at the manifest of the PV that got created to match the claim you created previously:

$ **kubectl get pv**
NAME                                       CAPACITY   ... CLAIM           ...
pvc-da58c85c-e29a-11e7-ac0b-080027fcc0e7   1Gi        ... default/foobar  ...

$ **kubectl get pv pvc-da58c85c-e29a-11e7-ac0b-080027fcc0e7 -o yaml**
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
...
  hostPath:
    path: /tmp/hostpath-provisioner/pvc-da58c85c-e29a-11e7-ac0b-080027fcc0e7
    type: ""
...

To verify that the host volume created holds the database `data`, you can connect to Minikube and list the files in the directory:

$ **minikube ssh**
                         \_             \_
            \_         \_ ( )           ( )
  \_\_\_ \_\_\_  (\_)  \_\_\_  (\_)| |/')  \_   \_ | |\_      \_\_
/' \_ \` \_ \`\\| |/' \_ \`\\| || , <  ( ) ( )| '\_\`\\  /'\_\_\`\\
| ( ) ( ) || || ( ) || || |\\\`\\ | (\_) || |\_) )(  \_\_\_/
(\_) (\_) (\_)(\_)(\_) (\_)(\_)(\_) (\_)\`\\\_\_\_/'(\_,\_\_/'\`\\\_\_\_\_)

$ **ls -l /tmp/hostpath-provisioner/pvc-da58c85c-e29a-11e7-ac0b-080027fcc0e7**
total 28688
-rw-rw---- 1 999 999        2 Dec 16 20:02 data.pid
-rw-rw---- 1 999 999  5242880 Dec 16 20:02 ib\_logfile0
-rw-rw---- 1 999 999  5242880 Dec 16 20:02 ib\_logfile1
-rw-rw---- 1 999 999 18874368 Dec 16 20:02 ibdata1
drwx------ 2 999 999     4096 Dec 16 20:02 mysql
drwx------ 2 999 999     4096 Dec 16 20:03 oreilly
drwx------ 2 999 999     4096 Dec 16 20:02 performance\_schema

Indeed, you now have data persistence. If the pod dies (or you delete it), your data will still be available.

In general, `storage classes` allow the cluster administrator to define the various types of storage they might provide. For the developers, it abstracts the type of storage and lets them use PVC without having to worry about the storage provider itself.

## See Also

*   [Persistent Volumes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#persistentvolumeclaims)
    
*   [Storage Classes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/)