## Problem

You need to find and run a particular command under __bash__.

## Solution

Try the __type, which, apropos, locate, slocate, find__, and __ls__ commands.

## Discussion

__bash__ keeps a list of directories in which it should look for commands in an environment variable called ++PATH++. The __bash__ builtin __type__ command searches your environment (including aliases, keywords, functions, builtins, directories in ++$PATH++, and the command hash table) for executable commands matching its arguments and displays the type and location of any matches. It has several options, notably the ++-a++ flag, which causes it to print all matches instead of stopping at the first one. The __which__ command is similar but only searches your ++$PATH++ (and __csh__ aliases). It may vary from system to system (it's usually a __csh__ shell script on BSD, but a binary on Linux), and usually has a ++-a++ flag like __type__. Use these commands when you know the name of a command and need to know exactly where it's located, or to see if it's on this computer. For example:

`type which`{{execute}}

`type ls`{{execute}}

`type -a ls`{{execute}}

`which which`{{execute}}

Almost all commands come with some form of help on how to use them. Usually there is online documentation called __manpages__, where "man" is short for manual. These are accessed using the __man__ command, so ++man ls++ will give you documentation about the __ls__ command. Many programs also have a built-in help facility, accessed by providing a "help me" argument such as ++-h++ or ++--help++. Some programs, especially on other operating systems, will give you help if you don't give them arguments. Some Unix commands will also do that, but a great many of them will not. This is due to the way that Unix commands fit together into something called __pipelines__, which we'll cover later. But what if you don't know or can't remember the name of the command you need? __apropos__ searches manpage names and descriptions for regular expressions supplied as arguments. This is incredibly useful when you don't remember the name of the command you need. This is the same as ++man -k++:

`apropos music`{{execute}}

`man -k music`{{execute}}

__locate__ and __slocate__ consult database files about the system (usually compiled and updated by a job run from the scheduler system __cron__) to find files or commands almost instantly. The location of the actual database files, what is indexed therein, and how often it is checked may vary from system to system. Consult your system's manpages for details. __slocate__ (secure locate) stores permission information (in addition to filenames and paths) so that it will not list programs to which the user does not have access. On most Linux systems, __locate__ is a symbolic link to __slocate__; other systems may have separate programs, or may not have __slocate__ at all. Here's an example:

`locate apropos`{{execute}}

Last but not least, try using __ls__. Remember, if the command you wish to run is in your current directory, you must prefix it with a `./` since the current working directory is usually not in your ++$PATH++ for security reasons.

