## Problem

You no longer need resources and want to get rid of them.

## Solution

Use the `delete` verb of `kubectl` along with the type and name of the resource you wish to delete.

To delete all resources in the namespace `my-app`, do:

$ **kubectl get ns**
NAME          STATUS    AGE
default       Active    2d
kube-public   Active    2d
kube-system   Active    2d
my-app        Active    20m

$ **kubectl delete ns my-app**
namespace "my-app" deleted

If you’re wondering how to create a namespace, see [\[namespace\]](#namespace).

You can also delete specific resources and/or influence the process by which they are destroyed. To delete services and deployments labeled with `app=niceone`, do:

$ **kubectl delete svc,deploy -l app=niceone**

To force deletion of a pod, do:

$ **kubectl delete pod hangingpod --grace-period=0 --force**

To delete all pods in the namespace `test`, do:

$ **kubectl delete pods --all --namespace test**

## Discussion

Do not delete supervised objects such as pods controlled by a deployment directly. Rather, kill their supervisors or use dedicated operations to get rid of the managed resources. For example, if you scale a deployment to zero replicas (see [\[scaling-deployments\]](#scaling-deployments)), then you effectively delete all the pods it looks after.

Another aspect to take into account is cascading versus direct deletion—​for example, when you delete a custom resource definition (CRD) as shown in [\[writing\_crd\]](#writing_crd), all its dependent objects are deleted too. To learn more about how to influence the cascading deletion policy, read [Garbage Collection](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/garbage-collection/) in the Kubernetes docs.