## Problem

You want to gain a deeper understanding of a certain resource—for example, `service`—and/or understand what exactly a certain field in a Kubernetes manifest means, including default values and if it’s required or optional.

## Solution

Use the `explain` verb of `kubectl`:

$ **kubectl explain svc**
DESCRIPTION:
Service is a named abstraction of software service (for example, mysql)
consisting of local port (for example 3306) that the proxy listens on, and the
selector that determines which pods will answer requests sent through the proxy.

FIELDS:
   status       <Object>
     Most recently observed status of the service. Populated by the system.
     Read-only. More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/
     api-conventions.md#spec-and-status/

   apiVersion   <string>
     APIVersion defines the versioned schema of this representation of an
     object. Servers should convert recognized schemas to the latest internal
     value, and may reject unrecognized values. More info:
     https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/api-conventions.md#resources

   kind <string>
     Kind is a string value representing the REST resource this object
     represents. Servers may infer this from the endpoint the client submits
     requests to. Cannot be updated. In CamelCase. More info:
     https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/api-conventions
     .md#types-kinds

   metadata     <Object>
     Standard object's metadata. More info:
     https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/api-conventions.md#metadata

   spec <Object>
     Spec defines the behavior of a service. https://git.k8s.io/community/
     contributors/devel/api-conventions.md#spec-and-status/

$ **kubectl explain svc.spec.externalIPs**
FIELD: externalIPs <\[\]string>

DESCRIPTION:
     externalIPs is a list of IP addresses for which nodes in the cluster will
     also accept traffic for this service.  These IPs are not managed by
     Kubernetes.  The user is responsible for ensuring that traffic arrives at a
     node with this IP.  A common example is external load-balancers that are not
     part of the Kubernetes system.

## Discussion

The `kubectl explain` command\[[3](#_footnotedef_3 "View footnote.")\] pulls the descriptions of resources and fields from the Swagger/OpenAPI definitions,\[[4](#_footnotedef_4 "View footnote.")\] exposed by the API server.

## See Also

*   Ross Kukulinski’s blog post, ["kubectl explain — #HeptioProTip"](https://blog.heptio.com/kubectl-explain-heptioprotip-ee883992a243)